README.md, before:

# Auto-Irrigation System for ESP32 🌱💧
This project is an automated irrigation system powered by an ESP32 
microcontroller. It uses sensors to monitor soil moisture and water levels, controls a pump for irrigation, and logs information on an LCD display. The system ensures efficient water usage while minimizing human intervention.

## Features
- **Soil & Water Monitoring**: Reads data from moisture and water level sensors.
- **Automated Irrigation**: Activates the pump when moisture levels drop below a threshold.
- **LCD Display**: Displays real-time sensor readings and warnings.
- **Wi-Fi Connectivity**: Uses NTP for time synchronization and potential remote monitoring.
- **Energy Efficiency**: Enters deep sleep mode between irrigation cycles.
- **Error Handling**: Provides warnings for low water levels and device initialization failures.

## Hardware Requirements
- ESP32 Development Board
- Soil Moisture Sensor
- Water Level Sensor
- 16x2 LCD with I2C Interface
- Water Pump 5V
- Power Supply (e.g., battery or solar panel)

## Getting Started

### Installation
1. Clone the repository:

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/mistersomov/IoT-AutoIrrigation
```
2. Install ESP-IDF (Espressif IoT Development Framework):
If you do not have the ESP-IDF Framework pre-installed, follow the installation instructions on the official documentation
    [ESP-IDF Get Started](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/v5.3.1/esp32/get-started/index.html#installation).
Otherwise skip this step.

3. Configure Wi-Fi credentials and thresholds in `main.cpp`

### Build
After completing the “Installation” item, to build the project, run the command:

```bash
    idf.py -p PORT flash monitor
```
Replace `PORT` with your ESP32 board's USB port name. If the `PORT` is not defined, the `idf.py` will try to connect automatically using the available USB ports.

## Future Enhancements
- Integration with cloud platforms for remote monitoring.
- Advanced scheduling based on weather data.
- Customizable thresholds via a web interface.

## Screenshots
![Screenshot](/assets/auto_irrigation.jpg)

Commit message:

Added Wi-Fi creds instruction

README.md, after:

# Auto-Irrigation System for ESP32 🌱💧
This project is an automated irrigation system powered by an ESP32 
microcontroller. It uses sensors to monitor soil moisture and water levels, controls a pump for irrigation, and logs information on an LCD display. The system ensures efficient water usage while minimizing human intervention.

## Features
- **Soil & Water Monitoring**: Reads data from moisture and water level sensors.
- **Automated Irrigation**: Activates the pump when moisture levels drop below a threshold.
- **LCD Display**: Displays real-time sensor readings and warnings.
- **Wi-Fi Connectivity**: Uses NTP for time synchronization and potential remote monitoring.
- **Energy Efficiency**: Enters deep sleep mode between irrigation cycles.
- **Error Handling**: Provides warnings for low water levels and device initialization failures.

## Hardware Requirements
- ESP32 Development Board
- Soil Moisture Sensor
- Water Level Sensor
- 16x2 LCD with I2C Interface
- Water Pump 5V
- Power Supply (e.g., battery or solar panel)

## Getting Started

### Installation
1. Clone the repository:

```bash
  git clone https://github.com/mistersomov/IoT-AutoIrrigation
```
2. Install ESP-IDF (Espressif IoT Development Framework):
If you do not have the ESP-IDF Framework pre-installed, follow the installation instructions on the official documentation
    [ESP-IDF Get Started](https://docs.espressif.com/projects/esp-idf/en/v5.3.1/esp32/get-started/index.html#installation).
Otherwise skip this step.

3. Configure Wi-Fi credentials:
While in the root directory of the project, execute the command:
```bash
    idf.py menuconfig
```
Next, go to `Component config`. Scroll through the list of possible configurations to the very end. There you will find `Wi-Fi Credentials`. Go to it.


Or, a second approach:
- After:
```bash
  git clone https://github.com/mistersomov/IoT-AutoIrrigation
```
- Press the character search hotkey `/`
- Type `SSID` in the search bar, and press enter.

Example:
![Creds](/assets/wi_fi_creds.png)

### Build
After completing the “Installation” item, to build the project, run the command:

```bash
    idf.py -p PORT flash monitor
```
Replace `PORT` with your ESP32 board's USB port name. If the `PORT` is not defined, the `idf.py` will try to connect automatically using the available USB ports.

## Future Enhancements
- Integration with cloud platforms for remote monitoring.
- Advanced scheduling based on weather data.
- Customizable thresholds via a web interface.

## Screenshots
![Screenshot](/assets/auto_irrigation.jpg)
